# myocardial-infarction
A myocardial infarction (MI), commonly known as a heart attack, occurs when blood flow decreases or stops to the coronary artery of the heart, causing damage to the heart muscle.The most common symptom is chest pain or discomfort which may travel into the shoulder, arm, back, neck or jaw. Often it occurs in the center or left side of the chest and lasts for more than a few minutes. 
MI is one of the most challenging problems of modern medicine. Acute myocardial infarction is associated with high mortality in the first year after it. The incidence of MI remains high in all countries and is  especially true for the urban population of highly developed countries, which is exposed to chronic stress factors, irregular and not always balanced nutrition. MI can occur without complications or with complications that do not worsen the long-term prognosis. At the same time, about half of patients in the acute and subacute periods have complications that lead to worsening of the disease and even death. Even an experienced specialist can not always foresee the development of these complications. Due to this, predicting complications of myocardial infarction in order to timely carry out the necessary preventive measures is an important task.
In this project, we are working with the Myocardial Infarction Complications Dataset from the UCI Machine Learning Repository. It contains 112 attributes containing information about the patient such as age, gender and other biological attributes such as  Quantity of myocardial infarctions in the anamnesis, Presence of an essential hypertension,  Duration of arterial hypertension etc. - the descriptions of which can be found here https://leicester.figshare.com/articles/dataset/Myocardial_infarction_complications_Database/12045261?file=22803572. Columns 113-124 denote the possible complications such as Post-infarction angina, Chronic heart failure, Dressler syndrome, Pulmonary edema etc.
